[Page 1]
ADNI Data Use Agreement (DUA):
I request access to data collected by the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) for  
the purpose of scientific investigation, teaching, or the planning of clinical research studies. 
I agree to the following terms:
1.I will receive access to de-identified data and will not attempt to establish the identity of, or 
attempt to contact any of the ADNI participants.
2.I will not attempt to make direct contact with ADNI PIs or staff at sites concerning the 
specific results of individual subjects.
3.I will not further disclose these data beyond the uses outlined in this agreement and my data  
use application. I understand that redistribution of individual participant-level data in 
any manner is prohibited . Reports and publication of summary (not participant-level) data 
are allowed.
4.I will not utilize AI tools, especially (but not exclusively) those with public-facing interfaces 
that do not offer guarantees regarding the containment of data inputs for  ADNI data, 
recognizing that the use of AI tools, including generative and analytical models, poses a 
potential risk of inadvertent data sharing  due to the nature of how these tools process 
information and may lead to data being sent, saved, viewed, or used in unforeseen ways by 
parties not covered by the DUA, which is a direct violation of this agreement.  See Appendix 
A for additional AI tool concerns, restrictions, and guidance.
5.I will not disclose any participant-level raw or derived datasets beyond the uses outlined in 
this agreement. Derived datasets containing participant-level data that I create and that I 
anticipate will benefit the scientific community, will be submitted to the ADNI study PI (Dr. 
Michael Weiner) using the format described in Derived Data Submission Form  (available in 
the ADNI repository). The study PI will determine whether my data may be distributed 
through the ADNI-LONI and/or other NIA-designated data repository. I understand derived 
datasets should only be shared through the ADNI-LONI and/or other NIA-designated data 
repository.
6.I will require anyone on my team (i.e. in my lab or company) who utilizes these data to 
comply with this Data Use Agreement. I understand that I am not allowed to distribute ADNI 
data outside of my team, only the ADNI study website operated by LONI-IDA can distribute 
data.
7.I will accurately provide the requested information for persons who will use these data and 
the analyses that are planned using these data.
8.I will respond promptly and accurately to annual requests to update information about my 
use of ADNI data.
9.I will comply with any rules and regulations imposed by my institution and its institutional 
review board in requesting these data.
If I publish abstracts using data from ADNI, I agree to the following:
1.I will cite ADNI as the source of data and the ADNI funding sources in the abstract as space 
allows.
2.For abstracts, you are not required to cite ADNI in the authorship line.
If I publish manuscripts using data from ADNI, I agree to the following:
1.On the by-line of the manuscript, after the named authors, I will include ADNI as an author 
by using the phrase "for the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative*" with the asterisk 
referring to the following statement and list of names:
*Data used in preparation of this article were obtained from the Alzheimer's Disease 
Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) database (adni.loni.usc.edu). As such, the investigators 
1

[Page 2]
within the ADNI contributed to the design and implementation of ADNI and/or provided data 
but did not participate in the analysis or writing of this report. A complete listing of ADNI 
investigators can be found 
at: http://adni.loni.usc.edu/wp-content/uploads/how_to_apply/ADNI_Acknowledgement_List.
pdf
[Note: For manuscripts that use metabolomics data generated by the Alzheimer's Disease 
Metabolomics Consortium (ADMC) in the by-line of the manuscript, after the named authors,  
I will include the phrase "for the Alzheimer's Disease Metabolomics Consortium**" with the 
double asterisk referring to the following statement and list of names:
**Data used in preparation of this article were generated by the Alzheimer's Disease 
Metabolomics Consortium (ADMC). As such, the investigators within the ADMC provided 
data but did not participate in the analysis or writing of this report. A complete listing of 
ADMC investigators can be found at:  https://sites.duke.edu/adnimetab/team/ ]
2.I will include language similar to the following in the Methods section of my manuscripts in 
order to accurately acknowledge data gathering by the ADNI personnel. Depending upon 
the length and focus of the article, it may be appropriate to include more or less than the 
example below. However, inclusion of some variation of the language shown below is 
mandatory.
Data used in the preparation of this article were obtained from the Alzheimer's Disease 
Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) database ( adni.loni.usc.edu). The ADNI was launched in 
2003 as a public-private partnership, led by Principal Investigator Michael W. Weiner, MD. 
The original goal of ADNI was to test whether serial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), 
positron emission tomography (PET), other biological markers, and clinical and 
neuropsychological assessment can be combined to measure the progression of mild 
cognitive impairment (MCI) and early Alzheimer's disease (AD). The current goals include 
validating biomarkers for clinical trials, improving the generalizability of ADNI data by 
increasing diversity in the participant cohort, and to provide data concerning the diagnosis 
and progression of Alzheimer’s disease to the scientific community. For up-to-date 
information, see adni.loni.usc.edu.
3.I will acknowledge funding by the ADNI in the support acknowledgement section of the 
manuscript using language similar to the following:
Data collection and sharing for the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) is 
funded by the National Institute on Aging (National Institutes of Health Grant 
U19AG024904). The grantee organization is the Northern California Institute for Research 
and Education. In the past, ADNI has also received funding from the National Institute of 
Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering, the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, and 
private sector contributions through the Foundation for the National Institutes of Health 
(FNIH) including generous contributions from the following: AbbVie, Alzheimer’s Association;  
Alzheimer’s Drug Discovery Foundation; Araclon Biotech; BioClinica, Inc.; Biogen; Bristol-
Myers Squibb Company; CereSpir, Inc.; Cogstate; Eisai Inc.; Elan Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Eli 
Lilly and Company; EuroImmun; F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and its affiliated company 
Genentech, Inc.; Fujirebio; GE Healthcare; IXICO Ltd.; Janssen Alzheimer Immunotherapy 
Research & Development, LLC.; Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceutical Research & 
Development LLC.; Lumosity; Lundbeck; Merck & Co., Inc.; Meso Scale Diagnostics, LLC.; 
NeuroRx Research; Neurotrack Technologies; Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation; Pfizer  
Inc.; Piramal Imaging; Servier; Takeda Pharmaceutical Company; and Transition 
Therapeutics.
[Note: For manuscripts that use metabolomics data generated by the Alzheimer's Disease 
Metabolomics Consortium (ADMC) I will include the following language:
2

[Page 3]
Data collection and sharing for this project was funded by the Alzheimer's Disease 
Metabolomics Consortium (National Institute on Aging R01AG046171, RF1AG051550 and 
3U01AG024904-09S4). ]
[Note: For manuscripts that use ADNI whole genome sequencing data generated by the 
ADSP, I will include the following language: Data generation and sharing for this project was  
funded, in part, by the Alzheimer's Disease Sequencing Project.  For details on how to 
acknowledge ADSP Data Sets including ADNI see: 
https://dss.niagads.org/datasets/ng00067/#dataset-acknowledgement  ]
[Note: For manuscripts that use multiomics data generated by CLEAR-AD, I will include the 
following language: Data generation and sharing for this project was funded, in part, by 
“Centrally-linked longitudinal peripheral biomarkers of AD in multi-ethnic populations” 
(National Institute on Aging U19 AG074879 ). See CLEAR-AD.org for further details. ]
4.I will submit all manuscripts to the ADNI Data and Publications Committee (DPC) prior to 
submitting them to a journal. This review will not be a scientific review, but it is intended to 
ensure that the items above are correctly implemented. The DPC will maintain confidentiality  
of the manuscript and will complete its review within 2 weeks. The DPC can be reached by 
logging into your LONI-IDA account: 1) click “My Account” in the upper right corner 2) click 
the ”Update” button in the Project line for ADNI; 3) On the ADNI User Account Update page,  
select “Publication Update” tab; 4) Enter and upload your publication information; 5) Email 
your manuscript to the DPC at: EDRAKE@BWH.HARVARD.EDU . 
Note: in the event that a journal requires a Conflict of Interest form because ADNI is listed 
on the author line of the manuscript, the DPC will provide one on request.
5.I will ensure that Investigators who utilize ADNI data use appropriate administrative, 
physical, and technical safeguards to prevent the use or disclosure of the data other than as  
provided for by this Agreement.
6.I will report any use or disclosure of the data not provided for by this Agreement of which I 
become aware within 15 days of becoming aware of such use or disclosure.
IMPORTANT NOTE: It is the policy of the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative to make 
analyzed data available to investigators as quickly as possible. However, data analysis for this 
project is expected to take years as methods for analysis of these datasets evolve. Therefore, I 
understand that any processed data that I download might be preliminary and that results may 
change as new methods of analysis are implemented. I will familiarize myself with the analysis 
methods so that I am aware of the limitations of these data prior to using them for scientific 
purposes.
Finally, because "preliminary data" will be posted on the database, in the event that I download 
data from the ADNI database for the purposes of analysis and future presentation/publication in 
the form of abstracts and/or manuscripts, I will note the version (download date) of the data I 
download and provide this information in any Methods section (if publishing), and I will check 
the database to determine if updated data has been provided prior to submission of any 
material for publication.
ADNI maintains the right to modify terms of this agreement and may do so by posting notice of 
such modifications on this page: https://adni.loni.usc.edu/news-publications/  . Any modification 
made is effective immediately upon posting the modification (unless otherwise stated). You 
should visit this page periodically to review the current use agreement terms.
 
APPENDIX A
ADNI DUA: Use and Requirements of AI tools
3

[Page 4]
Prohibited use of AI Tools : This ADNI Data Use Agreement explicitly prohibits any individual 
who has obtained ADNI data from sharing raw data, specifically participant-specific data, with 
any other individual or entity, in any forum, in any medium. For a variety of reasons, including 
the important need to protect the privacy of research participants, all data must be directly 
released to requesting individuals from our ADNI LONI website.  
The use of AI tools, including generative and analytical models, pose a genuine risk of 
inadvertent data sharing  due to the nature of how AI tools process, store, and regenerate 
information. AI tools, including but not limited to those with public-facing interfaces, such as 
OpenAI’s ChatGPT, usually do not offer guarantees regarding the containment of data inputs. 
Any data input into a prompt or output generated from a prompt could result with proprietary 
data infringed, sent, saved, viewed, misinterpreted, or used in unforeseen public ways. As a 
result, the use of such AI tools which may release ADNI participant level data to others, is  
in direct violation of ADNI Data Use Agreement policies . 
However, an important exception to the above stated prohibition would be AI tools, including 
generative and analytical models, which explicitly prevent sharing data  with others. Such AI 
tools may be developed and internally trained by individual research groups or academic 
institutions, and strictly used for the individual research group or academic institution provided 
that “sharing” data beyond the tool is strictly prohibited. Therefore, ADNI data may be analyzed 
using AI tools which provide guarantees that all data is safeguarded, contained, and will not be 
released to others.
Note that this amendment does not impose any new restrictions on the use of ADNI data, but is 
intended for clarification on item #3 in the DUA (above): "I will not further disclose these data 
beyond the uses outlined in this agreement and my data use application and understand that 
redistribution of data in any manner is prohibited."
 
As of the writing of this Appendix the term “Artificial Intelligence” or “AI” means a broad range of 
technologies and tools that can generate and regenerate content in various mediums including 
text, images, videos, and audio, based on the content or data input to generate output in any 
medium response. The recent commercialization of these AI tools represents a significant 
challenge in maintaining the privacy of participants in the ADNI study, and of participants in 
human subjects’ research in general. Uploading ADNI data to a third-party platform that is not 
explicitly in compliance with the prohibition and restrictions on redistribution of ADNI data set 
forth herein is a clear violation of this Agreement.
 
ADNI requires investigators to adhere to the following terms when deciding whether a project 
utilizing these tools is in compliance with the terms of this Agreement:
Computational resources
oThe application of any statistical or other analytic methods to ADNI data - 
whether branded as 'AI' and “AI Tool” or otherwise - should not be performed 
using computational or AI resources owned by third parties who engage in the 
long-term retention of user content that is either shared with other parties or used  
in the training of public-facing models, such activity could include the contents of 
the ADNI data set. This includes the use of third-party platforms for inference 
(e.g. the inclusion of ADNI data as part of an input or 'prompt' for a generative 
language model), training (including both the training of foundations model and 
the fine-tuning of pre-trained models via transfer learning or some other process),  
4

[Page 5]
prediction, or any other task that could result ]in ADNI data being retained, 
shared, regenerated or otherwise by entities that are not in compliance with the 
DUA.
oSome commercial entities may offer an 'opt-out' clause in the terms of use for 
their models, allowing users to decline the right of the entity to retain the data for 
training and other purposes. This does not constitute sufficient protection, and 
under no circumstances should this be viewed as an acceptable safeguard for 
sharing ADNI data with these third parties.
oInvestigators making use of remote computational resources such as Microsoft 
Azure, Google Cloud, Amazon Web Services, Runpod, or other computational 
services for the purposes of training AI models must take care to review the 
terms of use for the service to ensure that their workflow is secure. 
Public release of models trained using ADNI data
oThe use of ADNI data in training models is both permitted and encouraged, 
provided that the process is carried out in compliance with the DUA as outlined 
above. However, investigators who intend on making the weights of a trained 
model publicly available should consider whether the model could be used to 
easily reconstruct parts of the ADNI data set. ADNI prohibits release of 
participant level data, even if it is sufficiently processed or altered and lack ADNI 
subject codes. See Term (3) above “ I understand that redistribution of 
individual participant-level data in any manner is prohibited” .  All participant 
level data generated by ADNI can only be released by the LONI-IDA website. 
Individual investigators who have generated participant level data based on ADNI  
data can request for their data to be shared by contacting Dr. Weiner at 
michael.weiner@ucsf.edu
oThis precaution is particularly important in the case of large language models and  
other highly overparameterized generative models. Numerous studies have 
demonstrated that it is possible to extract training examples from these large and  
complex models, and investigators should keep this fact in mind.
I understand that failure to abide by these guidelines will result in the termination of my 
privileges to access ADNI data. Furthermore, ADNI reserves the right to pursue damages 
for actions which violate ADNI guidelines.
5