[Page 1]
   
 
ADNI3 MRI OVERVIEW   
 
 Page 1 of 2 Version Date: 23 May 2018 
Copyright © 2017 Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research 
 
 
Alzheimer ’s Disease Neuro Imaging MRI Overview  
 
The Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) is a longitudinal natural history study  whose 
primary purpose is informing the design of therapeutic trials in Alzheimer’s disease (AD) . Along with 
longitudinal clinical, PET, biofluid and genetic information, MRI data is one component of the 
comprehensive data set collected in participants.  
 
ADNI began in 2004 and to date 3 different phases of ADNI have been undertaken. These are named ADNI 
1, ADNI GO/2 and now ADNI 3. These roughly correspond to typical 5 year NIA grant cycles. The MR 
protocol evolved over these 3 phases. The MRI protocol for ADNI1 (2004- 2009) focused on consistent 
longitudinal structural imaging on 1.5T scanners using T1-  and dual echo T2-weighted sequences. One -fourth 
of ADNI  1 subjects were also scanned using essentially the same protocol on 3T scanners.   
 
In ADNI -GO/ADNI2 (2 010-2016) , imaging was performed at 3T with T1 -weighted imaging parameters 
similar to ADNI1. In place of the dual echo T2-weighted image from ADNI1, 2D  FLAIR and T2*- weighted 
imaging was added at all sites. Both f ully sampled and accelerated T1 -weighted images were acquired in 
each imaging session. Advanced imaging was included depending on scanner manufacturer:  diffusion 
imaging on GE scanners, resting state functional MRI on Philips scanners and arterial spin labeling on 
Siemens scanners.   
 
ADNI  3 imagi ng is being done exclusively on 3T scanners. Nearly all of the imaging sequences from ADNI2 
have been updated for inclusion in ADNI  3. Each of the ADNI  2 “advanced imaging” sequences is now 
included in the “basic” ADNI  3 protocol with a few site -wise excep tions related to sequence license issues.  
In order to create imaging protocols that can be used to support drug studies , it is necessary to restrict the 
sequences employed to those commercially available on scanners.   
 
ADNI users should be aware that t here is a broad gap between older MRI systems and the state- of-the-art 
systems within each vendor’s product line. Thus, the ADNI MR data set includes a wide range of scanner 
platforms.  A two -tiered approach is taken to accommodate the range of variability in scanners in ADNI 3 . 
“ADNI  3 Basic” and “ADNI  3 Advanced” protocols have been created.   
 
Both images and quantitative numeric ADNI MR data are available publically.  
 
Each series in each exam undergoes quality control at Mayo Clinic. Two levels of quality control are 
performed; adherence to the protocol parameters and series- specific quality ( i.e., subject motion, anatomic 
coverage, etc.). Scan quality is graded subject ively by trained analysts: 1 -3 is acceptable and 4 is failure 
(unusable). This QC information will eventually be  available for each series on LONI.  Thus , users will be 
able to easily employ exam level QC information as filters in data collections.  
MR scanners routinely undergo upgrades. These can be relatively minor (SW version) or major (hardware 
changes, e.g. head coil). In some cases, the scanner itself will be replaced at an ADNI site. We advise the 
following  approach to the issue of scanner change s:  
1. Assume that longitudinal within subject data is not compatible before vs after a change in scanner.   

[Page 2]
   
 
ADNI3 MRI OVERVIEW   
 
 Page 2 of 2 Version Date: 23 May 2018 
Copyright © 2017 Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research 
2. Assume that longitudinal within subject data is not compatible before vs after a major hardware 
change – e .g., change in head coil.  
3. Assume that longit udinal within subject data maybe compatible before vs after a SW version change, 
but be advised that this may not be shown to be true eventually for some types of SW changes. 
 
 
 